[WIP] Add style guide for references in `contributing.rst` (#2226)
pvlib/pvlib-python: docs/sphinx/source/contributing/style_guide.rst

The recommended citation style for several media types is as follows:

**Journal article**:

    Author initials and surname, "Title of article," abbreviated journal
    title, vol. number, issue number, page numbers, Abbreviated Month Year.

**Book**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, “Chapter title” in Book Title, xth ed.
    City of Publisher, (only U.S. State), Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year,
    ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx.

**Technical report**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, “Report title” Abbrev. publisher name,
    City of publisher, Abbrev. State, Country, Rep. xxx, year

The example below shows how to cite material and generate a reference list
using the IEEE style in a docstring::

    This is the recommended citation for the pvlib-python project [1]_. There
    are also some conference papers linked to pvlib, for example [2]_.
    
    Other types of reference you may find in the pvlib-python documentation
    include books [3]_ and technical reports [4]_.

    References
    ----------
    .. [1] K. Anderson, C. Hansen, W. Holmgren, A. Jensen, M. Mikofski,
           and A Driesse. “pvlib python: 2023 project update.” J. Open Source

>            Softw. 8(92), 5994, (2023). :doi:`10.21105/joss.05994`

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to match IEEE style

Reviewer 2: This part? " 8(92), 5994, (2023)"

Author: Please help me check the last commit before I mark this as resolved. I swapped out the brackets for vol./no. and commas.

include:

* Author list (for more than six authors, list only the first with et al.)
* Publication title
* Publisher (journal title, laboratory name, etc.)
* Year of publication
* DOI (if available)

The recommended citation style for several media types is as follows:

**Journal article**:

    Author initials and surname, "Title of article," abbreviated journal
    title, vol. number, issue number, page numbers, Abbreviated Month Year.

**Book**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, "Chapter title" in Book Title, xth ed.
    City of Publisher, (only U.S. State), Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year,
    ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx.

**Technical report**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, "Report title" Abbrev. publisher name,
    City of publisher, Abbrev. State, Country, Rep. xxx, year

The example below shows how to cite material and generate a reference list
using the IEEE style in a docstring::

    This is the recommended citation for the pvlib-python project [1]_. There
    are also some conference papers linked to pvlib, for example [2]_.
    
    Other types of reference you may find in the pvlib-python documentation

>     include books [3]_ and technical reports [4]_.

Reviewer 3: I suggest adding a website also.

    References
    ----------
    .. [1] K. Anderson, C. Hansen, W. Holmgren, A. Jensen, M. Mikofski,

>            and A Driesse. “pvlib python: 2023 project update.” J. Open Source

Reviewer: Let's replace the "fancy" quotation mark characters with normal ones `"` in each of these four examples

           Softw. vol. 8, no. 92, pp. 5994, Dec 2023,
           :doi:`10.21105/joss.05994`

    .. [2] J. S. Stein, “The Photovoltaic Performance Modeling Collaborative
           (PVPMC),” In Proc. 38th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference
           (PVSC), Austin, TX, USA, 2012, pp. 3048-3052,
           :doi:`10.1109/PVSC.2012.6318225`

    .. [3] J. A. Duffie and W. A. Beckman, “Solar Radiation" in Solar
           Engineering of Thermal Processes, 3rd ed, New York, USA, J. Wiley
           and Sons, 2006, ch. 1, sec. 1.5, pp.9-11

>     .. [4] R. Bird, and C. Riordan, “Simple solar spectral model for direct and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. [4] R. Bird and C. Riordan, “Simple solar spectral model for direct and
```

Author: From what I have seen in the style guide, a comma is not used when there are only two authors
Attached example
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea81b321-8dd8-404f-9c5a-3f3984205b2f)

Reviewer: I think we are in agreement; I am suggesting to remove such a comma

Author: Yes sorry my mistake! I noticed just after so deleted my comment and applied the change. I tried adding you as a co-author to the commit on GH desktop because the conversation became outdated but forgot to hit search user before commit 🤦🏾‍♂️

           diffuse irradiance on horizontal and tilted planes at the earth’s
           surface for cloudless atmospheres", NREL, Golden, CO, USA, Technical
           Report TR-215-2436, 1984, :doi:`10.2172/5986936`

Things to note:

* In-text numeric citations are a number inside square brackets, followed
  by an underscore, e.g. ``[1]_``.

> * To include a DOI, you can use the existing ``:doi:``
>   `Sphinx role <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`_,
>   followed by the DOI string inside a set of backticks.

Reviewer 4: I wonder whether this link is confusing since `:doi:` role does not appear in that page.

```suggestion
* To include a DOI link, use the custom ``:doi:`` role, e.g.,
  |:doi:`10.21105/joss.05994`| will render as `DOI: 10.21105/joss.05994 <dx.doi.org/10.21105/joss.05994>`_.
```

Author: > I wonder whether this link is confusing since `:doi:` role does not appear in that page.

I think it's okay if `:doi:` is not there as only phrase "sphinx role" is linked; the purpose was just to provide some context/info in case the reader is unfamiliar with the term "role" --- I accept it is not essential, but I was just trying to be helpful 😅

I am not opposed to revising further, but I am unsure about the suggested revision... Save for the "render as..." I think this is covered by the example?

Reviewer 4: At least add the word `custom` in front of it, please.

```suggestion
* To include a DOI, you can use pvlib's custom ``:doi:``
  `Sphinx role <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`_,
  followed by the DOI inside a set of backticks.
```

status box at the bottom of the pull request.

.. _references:

References
----------

> All pertinent information within a docstring should include a proper reference.
> In pvlib-python, we are transitioning to a standardised referencing system. We

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In pvlib-python, we 
```

This page's scope is the reference style. The policy for what references are appropriate and where they are needed should be part of the Contributing guide, I think.

Author: Good point

Author: Still not worth mentioning the transitioning? I don't have a strong preference to include it, but I just thought it would explain why existing code that contributors see might not follow the recommended style. Still happy to delete that if you think so though 👍🏾

Author: Is it still not worth mentioning the transitioning bit?
I don't have a strong preference to include it, but I just thought it would explain why existing code that contributors see might not follow the recommended style. Still happy to delete that if you prefer though

Reviewer 2: That's also a good point. "pvlib-python is transitioning to a standard reference format." Does this work?

encourage using the `IEEE style <https://journals.ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/7/IEEE_Reference_Guide.pdf>`_

> with numeric in-text citations, but overall the most important feature of all
> references is that they include sufficient information to make locating the
> original source as easy as possible. As a bare minimum, we advise including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with numeric in-text citations. At minimum, a reference should include:
```

* Author list (can be abbreviated with et al.)
* Publication title

> * Publication source (journal title, laboratory name, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Publisher (journal title, laboratory name, etc.)
```

* Year of publication
* DOI (if available)

The recommended citation style for several media types is as follows:

**Journal article**:

>     Author initials. Author Surname, "Title of article," abbreviated journal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Author initials and surname, "Title of article," abbreviated journal
```

    title, vol. number, issue number, page numbers, Abbreviated Month Year.

**Book**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, “Chapter title” in Book Title, xth ed.
    City of Publisher, (only U.S. State), Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year,
    ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx.

**Technical report**:

    Author initials. Author Surname, “Report title” Abbrev. Name of Co.,

>     City of Co., Abbrev. State, Country, Rep. xxx, year

Reviewer 2: "Co." can be confused with County. I think we should spell out "Company" or (better) use "publisher" again here. The NREL example does not list the city (Golden, CO).

    
    Other types of reference you may find in the pvlib-python documentation
    include books [3]_ and technical reports [4]_.

    References
    ----------
    .. [1] K. Anderson, C. Hansen, W. Holmgren, A. Jensen, M. Mikofski,
           and A Driesse. “pvlib python: 2023 project update.” J. Open Source
           Softw. 8(92), 5994, (2023). :doi:`10.21105/joss.05994`

    .. [2] J. S. Stein, “The Photovoltaic Performance Modeling Collaborative
           (PVPMC),” In Proc. 38th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference
           (PVSC), Austin, TX, USA, 2012, pp. 3048-3052,
           :doi:`10.1109/PVSC.2012.6318225`

    .. [3] J. A. Duffie and W. A. Beckman, “Solar Radiation" in Solar
           Engineering of Thermal Processes, 3rd ed, New York, USA, J. Wiley
           and Sons, 2006, ch. 1, sec. 1.5, pp.9-11

    .. [4] R. Bird, and C. Riordan, “Simple solar spectral model for direct and
           diffuse irradiance on horizontal and tilted planes at the earth’s
           surface for cloudless atmospheres”, NREL, CO, USA, Technical Report
           TR-215-2436, 1984, :doi:`10.2172/5986936`

Things to note:

> * In text numeric citations require a number inside square brackets, followed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In-text numeric citations are a number inside square brackets, followed
```

  by an underscore, e.g. ``[1]_``.
* To include a DOI, you can use the existing ``:doi:``
  `Sphinx role <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`_,
  followed by the DOI string inside a set of backticks.

> * The citation formatting must be consistent within the same docstring, for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The citation formatting should be consistent within the same docstring, for
```

References
----------

> pvlib-python is transitioning to a standard reference format. We encourage

Reviewer 2: Re-reading this, we say "standard" reference format but then "encourage" use of IEEE, leaving me unsure if the IEEE style is the standard for pvlib.

If so, then "pvlib-python is transitioning to the IEEE reference style" and "New code should use the IEEE style" would be more clear.

If we are accepting other formats, then "encourage" is OK but replace "standard" with "more consistently formatted references" I'm not in favor of this idea and I thought we agreed that IEEE is preferred.

Reviewer 3: There should only be one correct way. Let's require IEEE for new contributions

Author: All good points

> I'm not in favor of this idea and I thought we agreed that IEEE is preferred.

Me neither, and yes we did

I was thinking about [this comment](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python/issues/2202#issuecomment-2346879058) (the recommend not insist bit) when I used the words recommend and encourage.

I agree the current wording is unclear and should be improved though.

> "pvlib-python is transitioning to the IEEE reference style" and "New code should use the IEEE style"

I am okay with the above.

I might slightly prefer: "pvlib-python is transitioning to a consistent reference style. New code should use the IEEE style."
Possibility: "new contributions" instead of "new code"? Replace one or both of the "style" with "format"?

Reviewer 2: > "pvlib-python is transitioning to the IEEE reference style, which should be used in all new contributions"

+1

> "new contributions" instead of "new code"

Contributions is better
